# course-portfolio
Corpus: Hyperpop can be seen as a music genre that originated from the internet. According to Spotify analyst Glenn McDonald, the term “hyperpop” was first used in reference to the UK-based music label PC Music in 2014. The genre, “hyperpop”, has become a catchall for many sub-genres ever since it was first used. That is why it’s hard to grasp its significance, but roughly, hyperpop can be characterized as a music genre that (could) employ elements such as loud synth melodies, high pitched vocals, excessive distortion and compression, short song lengths, and often lyrical references to the early 2000s internet culture. The reason why I put “could” into brackets, is that I believe incoherence is inherent to the genre. The characteristics I described don’t function as a checkbox whether a song is featured on Spotify’s hyperpop playlist. The songs on this playlist vary widely in style, and that is why I am interested in researching this playlist. In my research, I want to analyze what characterizes a song on Spotify’s hyperpop playlist. To do so, I will analyze the pitch, volume, timbre, and duration of a song. Besides that, I am also interested in whether the gender, age, or ethnicity of the artist plays a role. The corpus will consist of 100 songs from Spotify’s official Hyperpop playlist. Since I don’t have access to previous playlists, I am using the Hyperpop playlist as it was on February 26th, 2022. As I mentioned above, the songs in the playlist have a wide range of styles. However, while listening, I do feel there are similarities between the tracks, but I can’t express that feeling in words. I expect that this research project will help me grasp the significance of the characteristics of a Hyperpop song in Spotify’s contemporary Hyperpop playlist. 
